---
name: Daniel Zeller
last_name: Zeller
image: image.jpg
roles:
  - maker
---
Daniel Zeller holds a BFA and an MFA in sculpture from the University of Connecticut, Storrs, and the University of Massachusetts, Amherst, respectively. He lives and works in New York as a professional artist. Daniel Zeller's drawings depict abstract spaces with beauty and inspiring complexity. The visual language he developed stimulates people's intellect and emotions in unexpected ways.Zeller's works can be seen as travel documents—charts or aerial views that reflect a wide range of sources, from satellite imagery to electron micrographs, anatomical diagrams to road maps. For Zeller, drawing, like travel, is a fluid action, a continuous response to itself, an endless effort to be present where the mark is being made. It is also a discipline in which past experience and study inform the mark, guiding it in ways that can become increasingly predictable. It thus becomes imperative to combine learned patterns into something else, to alter the predictable and discover that which is different yet somehow familiar. It is exploration, an active desire to find what is uncharted or hidden. On a geographic level, people still engage in this activity as individuals. But collectively they have reached a certain level of saturation—most of the frontiers have met one another and disappeared. Maps and charts show people where to explore and how to get to places that others have already seen.Zeller was awarded a Pollock-Krasner Foundation grant in 2001. His work is featured in the collections of the Museum of Modern Art, the Arkansas Art Center, the Los Angeles County Museum of Art, and the Whitney Museum of American Art. Recent solo exhibitions include Drawings (2001), Empirical Cryptosis (2003), Cyclical Redundance (2005), and Geomorphical Fluxitosis (2008) at Pierogi Gallery (Brooklyn, New York); Recent Drawings (2004) and New Drawings (2007) at Daniel Weinberg Gallery (Los Angeles, California); Biodegradable (2004) and Erreur Infinie (2006) at g-module (Paris, France); and Drawings (2008) at Michel Soskine Inc. (Madrid, Spain).
