---
name: James Burke
last_name: Burke
image: image.jpg
roles:
  - maker
---
James Burke was born in Northern Ireland and educated at Oxford; he also holds honorary doctorates for his work in communicating science and technology as his work is on the curriculum of universities and schools across the United States. He is a frequent consultant and speaker to technology companies, universities and government agencies such as NASA, MIT, IBM, Microsoft, US and European government agencies, and the World Affairs Council. In 1965 Burke began work with BBC-TV on Tomorrow's World and went on to become the BBC's chief reporter on the Apollo Moon missions. For over forty years he has produced, directed, written and presented award-winning television series on the BBC, PBS, Discovery Channel, and The Learning Channel. These include historical series, such as Connections (aired in 1979, it achieved the highest-ever documentary audience); The Day the Universe Changed; Connections2 and Connections3; a one-man science series, The Burke Special; a mini-series on the brain, The Neuron Suite; a series on the greenhouse effect, After the Warming; and a special for the National Art Gallery on Renaissance painting, Masters of Illusion.A bestselling author, his publications include: Tomorrow's World, Tomorrow's World II, Connections, The Day the Universe Changed, Chances, The Axemaker's Gift (with Robert Ornstein), The Pinball Effect, The Knowledge Web, Circles, and Twin Tracks: The Unexpected Origins of the Modern World. His most recent book, American Connections, focuses on the surprising connections among the seemingly unconnected people, events and discoveries that have shaped the U.S and our world. Burke has also written and hosted a bestselling CD-ROM, Connections: A Mind Game. He wrote a monthly column for Scientific American for six years. His most recent television work is a PBS retrospective of his work, ReConnections.At present, Burke is working on a large interactive knowledge system.
