---
title: "Artist Spotlight: Mark Lombardi"
date: 2021-07-10T15:28:31.232Z
blogImages:
  - sm: lombardiheader.png
    lg: lombardiheader.png
  - sm: gerrybull1999.jpg
    lg: gerrybull1999.jpg
  - sm: bankofcreditandcommerce1996.jpg
    lg: bankofcreditandcommerce1996.jpg
---
Artist Spotlight: Mark Lombardi   
Final, 10/14/21 

Piece in Collection: https://scimaps.org/map/4/4  


Mark Lombardi (1951-2000) found gallery success by creating intricate, large-scale flow charts detailing global economic and political events. He referred to these as “narratives,” a form of visual storytelling that is generated by the viewer as they explore the information. The colored pencil and graphite drawings use only a handful of symbols along with names and dates to communicate the web of connections Lombardi forms through extensive research of public information. The works were iterative, meaning a new version was created to reflect a new understanding of the events. Earlier pieces are constructed panoramically along a general timeline, which later developed into non-hierarchical circles. 

 
Mark Lombardi. 1996. Bank of Credit and Commerce International, International Credit and Investment Corporation and First American Bankshares, ca.1972-4, Aka BCCI-ICIC-FAB (4th Version). 

Narrative diagrams were a synthesis of Lombardi’s work spanning the decades before. He earned a BA in art history from Syracuse University in 1974, and moved to Houston to work as a curator and reference librarian. In the 80’s, he began his socio-political investigations on thousands of index cards and completed a manuscript on Reagan’s war on drugs. He also wrote on panoramic landscapes and practiced abstract painting. The signature flow charts began in the mid 90’s as a way of organizing the information he’d accumulated over the years; his notecards are now archived in The Museum of Modern Art (MoMA).   

 
Lombardi, Mark. 1999. Gerry Bull, Space Research Corporation, and Armscor of Pretoria, South Africa, c. 1972-80 (5th Version). 

Lombardi’s neo-conceptual works intentionally replicate the charts used in business as an ironic use of corporate aesthetics. This draws attention to the minimalist beauty of the diagrams, which serves to emphasize the narrative built in the viewer's mind as the subject of the work. His work is heavily analogue, but seems to foreshadow and correlate to the rise of the information age. Computer scientist Rober Tolksdorf at Freie University, Berlin, has attempted to digitize the Lombardi networks, notecards, and sources after the artist tragically took his life in the year 2000. Some of the digitized networks are available in JSON format at lombardinetworks.net.  

Gilbert, Alan. 2011. “Mark Lombardi.” Artforum 49 (9).  
Tolksdorf, Robert. 2014. “Digitally Researching the Network Drawings of Mark Lombardi.” Leonardo 47 (3): 278–79.
Zdebik, Jakub. 2011. “Networks of Corruption: The Aesthetics of Mark Lombardi’s Relational Diagrams.” RACAR: Revue d’art Canadienne / Canadian Art Review 36 (2): 66–77. 

