---
name: Francis Narin
last_name: Narin
image: image.jpg
roles:
  - maker
---
Francis Narin earned a BS in chemistry from Franklin & Marshall College, an MS in nuclear engineering from North Carolina State College, and a PhD in bibliometrics from Walden University. From 1963 to 1968, he worked at the Illinois Institute of Technology (IIT) Research Institute, where he was senior scientist and manager of the Techno-Social Research Center. During this time, he was principal investigator on the groundbreaking Technology in Retrospect and Critical Events in Science (TRACES) study, through which he developed many of the science and technology evaluation tools used today. In 1968, he founded CHI Research in Chicago. CHI’s first contract was to complete the TRACES study—one of the first attempts to quantify the research and development process by tracing and timing important events through the stages of non-mission research, mission-oriented research, and development and application. Starting in 1970, CHI created all of the literature, literature citation, and patent citation (bibliometric) indicators used in the National Science Board’s biennial Science and Technology Indicators reports, from the first Science Indicators 1972 report through the Science and Engineering Indicators 2012 report. In the early 1980s, CHI extended the bibliometric analysis of literature citations to patent citation analysis and pioneered the application of bibliometric techniques to corporate technology evaluation. In the late 1980s, CHI developed the first patent-to-paper citation database and went on to prove the rapidly growing links between science and technology. In the 1990s, CHI extended this line of analysis to the economic realm, and obtained two patents that delineate the relationship between patent citations and company stock market performance. Narin’s most highly cited paper is “The Increasing Linkage between U.S. Technology and Public Science” from 1997, which showed that 73 percent of the science then cited in U.S. industry patents had originated in the public sector. Numerous congressional and other policy documents have since then cited that finding, and The New York Times reviewed the paper in “Study Finds Public
Science Is Pillar of Industry.” In 1988, Narin was awarded the Derek de Solla Price Medal for his outstanding contributions to quantitative studies of science.